Hi, everyone.
In this next year, we are going to talk about callback functions.
All right, so here in the e-mail, what we have is we have a button that says get data.
So whenever we click this button, we will be making in EPA requests to an API endpoint.
And that API endpoint is going to provide us with Jason data.
All right.
And here we have two images as well.
One image is for Cat.
The other one is for a dog.
Now, these images they don't have anything with they don't have anything to do with with this EPA request.
The purpose of these images is just to show you that asynchronous code actually doesn't block that doesn't
block the code execution.
So until that that asynchronous code is executed, JavaScript can go ahead and can run other tasks,
can execute other tasks.
And in this case, we have some simple styling for the button.
Here are the simple styling for the images.
And you can see that the images, they have a display of none.
So by default, we don't see them.
And that we here we have a dynamic class, which is show.
So whenever we click on this button, I'm going to show the images and I'm going to retrieve data as
well.
And we are going to see which one comes first, which one is going to be shown first.
All right.
So in the HDMI, I have selected the button, the CAD image, the dog image, and I've also created
the event listener for the get button.
So now we are talking about the callback functions.
First off, let's go ahead and let's create the get the get data function this function.
So get data just going to create this function.
So now whenever we are talking about callback functions, it means that we are going to pass the callback
function if the status is 200 and the state is for app and we are also going to pass it.
So this is going to be a success rate.
What if it is not a success?
What if the state is ready status for.
But still we have done something incorrect with the HTP request that we are making.
What if they're already state is for?
And the status is not 200, the status is 400 a client error.
How can we like simulate an error so we can catch it and we can resolve it.
Right.
But caching and resolving errors, that is well actually what we are going to do when we get to promises.
But I'm just going to throw this idea to you so you know that when you're getting data, there are bound
to be errors.
OK, and you need to find out where those errors are coming from, how you can prevent those errors,
how you can understand what is the source of that.
So first off, what I'm going to do as I'm going to create a function expression and I'm going to call
it Get to Duse.
Right.
And I'm going to pass in here a callback keyword.
This is going to be a callback function.
Now, the name for the callback function could be callback itself, could be c.B or it could be anything
that you want.
I'm writing callback here because this is the most intuitive way.
All right.
So here we have an error function.
Now, first off, we are going to go over those four steps and then we are going to take a look at the
callback function.
So what was the first step in order to make an error request?
OK, so the first step is to instantiate a new XIKAR object, so I'm going to call it Karns, I'm going
to call it data and new XML htp request or char object.
So this is the first step.
The second step was to create the open or to call the open method.
So we are going to say data open now inside the open.
We are going to pass our HTTP method and then we are going to pass the you the API endpoint, which
I'm just going to go ahead and grab it from here.
This is communicating this to the same Jason, a placeholder server, and we are getting the list of
to DOS.
And you know, if you want to get photos, you just in photos, albums, users, posts, comments,
you just change this with that, whatever it is that you want to grow.
And we are going to set true for a synchronicity.
OK, so in here, what I'm going to do is, instead of doing OnLoad, we are going to add an event listener
on the really state change.
So DataDot add event listener.
So you know that both ways it is going to work.
Ready state change and we are going to run a function.
Now this function, this part is actually the third step.
So this is the step when the if, if the request is successful, what do we want to do with that date?
First off, we need to know that that request is successful.
So I'm going to say this DOT status.
OK, so this status, when the status is 200, not 2000, and when the aready state so red state equals
four, what do we want to do?
All right, we want to grab our data, right?
We want to grab it and we want to print it to the council.
But I don't want it to be like in that Jason Fermat.
I want to convert it to a value that is readable by JavaScript.
So first off, we are going to grab that data.
That data is going to be data, that response text.
Then I'm going to call a method which is pass on it.
Pass, right, and this method belongs to Jason, so we are going to say, Jason, that pass now it
is going to grab our response sticks and it is going to pass it to a value that is readable by JavaScript.
Let's store this inside a variable as well.
And I'm going to call it data retrieved retrieved.
All right.
So now we have got we have gotten our data.
Let's log it to the console as well.
So we have data retrieved.
OK, so this is what what is going to happen when we have a status of 200 and a ready status for what
if we have already stated for what if all the what if we get the response next?
But the request itself, it is not a four, it is not a 200 status request itself hasn't been successful.
So why don't we need to do as and we need to create another answer for that.
And I'm going to say this already state four, right.
You can create as many as you want, but I'm just going to create two.
One is for when we have started a status of 200, a logical operator and ready state four and one we
only have when they already state is four.
And in here, what I'm going to do is I'm just going to say concealed lock error.
Fetching fetching date.
Right, so we have an error fishing data and what is the final step?
The final step is actually to send this to send this a request.
So we are going to say DataDot sent that set, but when we save it and when we click, nothing happens
because this get to do function, it has to be called.
All right.
And in here I have passed.
And the callback why don't we want to do is I'm going to remove the callback for now.
We are going to make this work and then I'm going to come back to the callback.
Now, this function, because we have used let it well, it doesn't actually matter if you use let or
const or even Warren here, because these variable declarations are Pskov to this to this function.
If I go out of this function and call this get to this function, it is going to throw an error.
So we need to stay inside this function.
So what I'm going to do is inside the function getdata, I'm going to call that function.
So I'm going to say get to do this.
All right.
And let's just go ahead and call it.
Let's save it.
Let's click on it.
We don't get anything.
Yeah, we do get so we we got 200 to DOS because by default, Jason Placeholder is going to give you
200 to do.
All right.
So this is Jason Placeholder.
If I come in here, we are going to have 200 Tiddas.
So that's what we got in here right now, our request is done, everything is done, but now let's come
back to the callback function.
So I'm going to I'm going to put in the callback parameter here.
So each parameter requires an argument to be passed as a as a value for that parameter.
The argument is going to be is going to be here.
But instead of putting a single value, I'm going to put in a function and this function is going to
be the callback function.
So this function is going to have two parameters, two parameters.
The convention is that the first parameter is going to be error.
And the second one is we are going to get the data.
The second one is going to be data.
So this is going to be a an error function.
So what I'm going to do first is I'm going to say cancel log and I'm just going to say call back.
Right.
And success.
Let's have it.
So now we haven't called this function.
We have passed it as a parameter here, but it has not been called.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to come here now if if we get the data, it means there has been
no error.
So I'm going to call the callback function in here and I'm also going to call it in here.
The reason that I call it in here is because when when we get the data, we need to grab that data.
And in here, when we don't get the data, we need to print the error.
So I'm going to remove this cancer log and I'm going to remove this one as well.
And in here, what I'm going to do, because we have we have two parameters.
We need two arguments.
All right.
So the first parameter is error.
Whenever this request is successful, it means we don't have any error.
So I'm just going to pass an undefined for that.
And what about our data?
So when we have when the request is successful, we just want to grab the data retrieved, data retrieved.
All right.
So what about this error whenever we have an error?
Right.
I'm just going to write here error fetching data.
What about the success?
What about whether it is success?
Because we are inside the NSF for the error.
It means that the success is undefined.
I'm just going to pass it undefined.
Now, if I go ahead and if I click on this, we get callbacks success because the callback is, of course,
successful.
I'm just going to make this model and I'm going to make this bigger because I will be trying some things
here.
So now the callback is successful.
Now, what I want to do is I want to simulate this elusive because I want to get this error as well.
Right.
So what I want to do is I'm just going to comment that want to copy it down below and to the before
writing the to dos, I'm going to say curity all right.
And I'm going to save it.
And when I click on it now, you can see that we still get our callback success, but we get an error
before or for now.
Let's go back where, where did we have the errors getting text data.
I think it was Jason.
Yeah, it's here.
So now we can see that the errors from 400 to 499, they are client errors.
And what does that mean?
It means that the error is happening on our part.
We are doing something incorrect.
We are doing something wrong.
That's why we see an error.
It means it's our fault.
It is.
The error is on the client side.
It is not on the server side.
The servers are right.
The adjacent placeholder server or API endpoint is working correctly.
But we have made a mistake.
That's what the client side addresses.
If it were to be five hundred to 599, then that would be like we are doing everything right.
But the server is down for at the moment or there are too many requests that the server cannot handle.
Now, that's besides the point.
The point is that we get the callback success and this is this message.
But now even if we have the error, we have the callback success.
And and when we have the data, we get the same thing, callback success.
So clearly, we need to do more things in here.
So what I am going to do here is I'm going to pass in and if statement.
So I'm going to say if now if we have an error, what do I want to do?
I want to say cancel the log, just log the error if we have an error, OK?
And else it means elss whenever we don't have an error.
So there are two cases.
If we have an error, if we don't have an error, if we do not have an error, just go ahead and log
to the console our to do data now we can see that both of them are highly.
Did it means that we have selected them correctly, now let's save it and let's check it out.
So if I click on this, because this is an error we are making, this API endpoint is incorrect.
We see error fetching data and we get this error for or for now.
If I come in this one out and comment, this one loops back in and save it and click on this.
What do we get?
We get all the Tiddas, all right.
We get all the to do.
So let me just bring it here.
So these are all the 200 reduced to which we made the request.
So this is how callbacks they work.
All right.
The callbacks are the keyword for that callback function or the function identifier as partisan as a
parameter.
And then when we call the parent function or that function, get to DOS, we pass in our.
We pass a function as a as an argument, we don't pass just one single value winner.
We never we have never done this.
I'm not sure if you have done it.
And I'm negative on this.
We have never done this.
We have never passed a function into and as an argument for a function call.
So we pass.
And this is actually the function declaration, sorry, the function definition.
And where do we call that function?
We call it when the request is successful and we call it when the request is not successful, when there
is some error.
Now you can see that you can you can't you can create more functions.
What if let's say you have multiple files, multiple API endpoints that you want to call, that you
want to make requests to.
For example, you get data from one API and then you want to wait until that data is received so you
can do something with that data.
And in doing so, you want to grab data from from another API endpoint as well.
So you might be doing like your you might be making requests to multiple APIs at the same time.
And you can see that you you will have to create multiple callback functions in here because you have
multiple API requests, Sara HTP requests.
And this is going to get very, very messy.
And that's when we get to a term very, very popular among developers.
And that is the callback hell, because everything is chained together.
Everything is like very cluster clustered together, very dense, and it is very difficult to maintain,
very difficult to read.
We are going to take a look at an example of callback hell and then we are going to introduce promises
and then we are going to change the promises.
Then we are going to introduce fetch, which is even better than promises.
And finally, we are going to go for async O8, which is even better than fetch.
All right.
So the final thing that I want to do here is those two images.
I just want to grab the images and I want to show you that asynchronous data is a non blocking data,
doesn't it means that whenever you have, you want to run a code because this code is done by is implemented
by the browser, JavaScript is free to move on and to do other stuff.
So what I am going to do is I'm going to grab the cat.
You know, you can see that we have selected them here.
So I'm going to say cat that class list.
I just want to add a class to it.
What does that class, the class show, I want to add that to the dog class as well.
So I'm just going to say, dog.
So what does this mean?
It means that whenever I click on this button, we are going to see we are going to get the request
sorry, their response.
And we are we will be showing this on the Web page as well.
So let's say that it's click on it.
You can see that for a very split second.
I'm just going to increase this and I'm going to bring this one down.
If you just pay very, very close attention, I'm going to zoom out a little.
All right.
So I'm just going to refresh.
When I click on this, we first see the images and then the data is retrieved.
It means that JavaScript is doing two things at the same time, but that's not actually the reality.
So let's click see first the images and then the data, because this data is retrieved by the browser,
not the JavaScript.
So if I just refresh and when I click, the page doesn't refresh.
That's the good thing about asynchronous programming.
See, so these images, they come first and then this data has to be retrieved, so that's it for this
lecture.
In the next lecture, we're going to take a look at callback.
Hell.
See you guys then.